I have a way to freeze the 3DS which might be exploitable - see
[Talk:Internet Browser](Talk:Internet_Browser "wikilink").
[R4wrz0rz0r](User:R4wrz0rz0r "wikilink") 14:59, 20 June 2011 (CEST)


That crash isn't exploitable unless you're extremely lucky. Don't waste
your time. --[Luigi2us](User:Luigi2us "wikilink") 20:44, 15 August 2011
(CEST)

It is not so bad to looking for buffer overflow.

`But try to know about file system  is more important.`

And we do not know enough about CCI,... formats to write an exploit with
a loader which loads an executable file! Maybe we should try to make a
savegame exploit...

Yeah, yeah, great hacking plans, kids. What are you going to do once you
find a buffer overflow? Blindly write stuff to memory hoping to hit the
PICA200 registers someday? Quit wasting your time with buffer overflows.
Come back when more is known. --[Luigi2us](User:Luigi2us "wikilink")
20:42, 15 August 2011 (CEST)

`        How would you write a 3DS Exploit, Luigi2us?`

We should ask Neimod to use his RAM dumping setup to see where link's
name is in OOT:3D. If it is not properly limited, and is near the
regions the console executes next, we might be able to get a buffer
overflow exploit. We should try to get a way to do a system exploit ASAP
with this method --[Alex theman](User:Alex_theman "wikilink") 16:00, 15
July 2013 (CEST)


Dear iirc, neimod use RAM modfication not exploit, and yellow use
exploit. --snip-- --[Syphurith](User:Syphurith "wikilink") 06:29, 16
July 2013 (CEST)

I know that and we should see what would happen, **if** we could get
this exploit running. And by the way you are really mentally handicapped
and should not be posting on this wiki period. Third, [your a cowboy
bebop at his
computer](http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/CowboyBebopAtHisComputer).
And I have been on the sega fourms and i know this BS like the back of
my hand. Go on the Sega fourm now!. Before you get banned! For
stupidity!


Orz. All okey. If you are hurted, take my apologize. I'm not wanting to
hurt anyone, so not knowing why you're getting angry. Also i would take
no more interests in that gateway (at least before anyone confirmed
that).

- Buffer overflow is somewhat difficult for ARM executables since there
  is no-execution flags. So yellow's is ROP.
- If you think you're very powerful to get new progress just contact him
  on IRC not here (he merely be here). Also that is your idea that a RAM
  dump may help so please ask him yourself.
- Always be calm. This wiki is not a site for querrals - So if you think
  i'm wrong OK i'm wrong.

\>\>Head back to continue MSIL hacking.. Have a good time
here.--[Syphurith](User:Syphurith "wikilink") 08:16, 18 July 2013 (CEST)

SAFE FIRM was only updated once, at 3.0: maybe because of the OTP
locking fail? --[motezazer](User:motezazer "wikilink") 20:56, 02 January
2017 (CET)