Also of note, I'll be doing some study over the next many dates and
adding a lot of content on the Wiki. I encourage you to challenge me in
my findings, as a lot of will be best-effort assumptions based off
available data. -[Seabrook](User:Seabrook "wikilink") 07:00, 16 June
2011 (CEST)

Removed this section from the article: "Whether to do a StreetPass hit
is probably determined based on if the other 3DS MAC+8byte Nintendo tag
data pair was ever seen before.." as it's been observed that the MAC
address and 8-byte StreetPass ID change every time the user enters and
exits the Settings application, but if done on two StreetPasses, they
won't tag again. However, a capture wasn't done at the time to see if
they talk to each other, but a StreetPass doesn't occur either way.
There must be some sort other identification in the Tag used by the 3DS.
Feel free to re-add if anyone disagrees with the removal due to the
evidence presented, or finds evidence refuting what I stated.
--[Seabrook](User:Seabrook "wikilink") 06:18, 16 June 2011 (CEST)

I do not think the StreetPass Data is stored on the SD Card at any time.
I've done a diff of the card before and after getting a StreetPass and
did not notice any differences. This was done with Mii Plaza StreetPass
data with one returning StreetPass, and one New StreetPass.

That doesn't mean all StreetPass data is stored on NAND, especially for
system software perhaps. Ridge Racer StreetPass data is stored on SD
card. --[Yellows8](User:Yellows8 "wikilink") 00:00, 12 April 2011 (CEST)

"This frame also contains a custom Nintendo tag, it seems to contain
unknown console unique data, since the contents of this tag from
different 3ds captures don't match."

Does this change if the mii data associated with the 3DS unit or
Streetpass is changed? --[Jl12](User:Jl12 "wikilink") 14:12, 15 April
2011 (CEST)