...Regions...

| ID  | Description |
|-----|-------------|
| 3   | AUS         |

Australian 3DSs are a part of the EUR region, infact EUR is written on
the labeling of 3DS Units. Australia is also a selectable country on the
EUR 3DS System Settings, so...--[3dsguy](User:3dsguy "wikilink") 16:03,
23 July 2012 (CEST)


IIRC NIM uses this cmd for the SOAP RegionId. Although there's a
separate RegionId for AUS SOAP, the titles from it are identical to the
EUR SOAP. This command isn't used for region-locking stuff, that info is
loaded from some file which can't be modified due to RSA signing, such
as [this](Nandrw/sys/SecureInfo_A "wikilink") possibly.
--[Yellows8](User:Yellows8 "wikilink") 16:50, 23 July 2012 (CEST)


What I'm getting at is that there is no 'Australian 3DS' (when I say
Australian I mean, they are flagged as Australian in these kind of
places). Nintendo Australia receives European 3DS(Flagged as European in
not just region lockout), in special Australian packaging which only
includes english print. If nintendo can create boxes, manuals, AR Cards
and dev units with AUS labeling, but chooses to make the retail 3DS
units sold to Australia, with EUR Labeling, the chances are Nintendo
haven't bothered to change the flags either, if they decided to budget
some of the EUR 3DSs made for
Australia.--[3dsguy](User:3dsguy "wikilink") 17:31, 23 July 2012 (CEST)


SOAP for 3DS actually doesn't return any title list when RegionId AUS is
used. So I guess this config field is set to EUR.
--[Yellows8](User:Yellows8 "wikilink") 18:06, 23 July 2012 (CEST)