Is the defective by designs campaign really relevant to 3dbrew? Should
it really be on the news page? --[Matthew](User:Matthew "wikilink")
06:27, 13 May 2011 (CEST)

I believe so. Homebrew appears to be a primary target of the Nintendo
3DS EULA and any bricking efforts Nintendo may
implement.--[Winmaster](User:Winmaster "wikilink") 17:29, 13 May 2011
(CEST)

It shouldn't be there. This wiki is for cataloging up to date knowledge
about the 3ds hardware/software and any development efforts. It is not a
bulletin board or a place to solicitate anything - even if its related
to the 3DS platform.

It's also myth and wrong/misinformation. Another reason we shouldn't be
hosting or "spreading" it.

The only argument I've read about that was referencing a statement in
the user manual that says something about "interruption of service".
There's a service associated with the 3ds. How do you think you get your
updates and notifications. Apparently someone believed it meant they're
going to "brick" your 3ds. Don't believe everything you come across plz.
Do your own homework and check for it up yourself.

Don't spread misinformation if you don't know either.

I feel sorry for the one getting those paper bricks ( if the page isn't
shut down first ) because he's not responsible for some kid misreading
their user manual elsewhere in the world or the lame trends they
started, instead of asking somebody else that would have known better.
Someone studying law maybe. Not like gbatemp/wiki I guess. \>_\>

[Jl12](User:Jl12 "wikilink") 20:39, 14 May 2011 (CEST)

What about crown3ds? Is it a
fake?--[Lazymarek9614](User:Lazymarek9614 "wikilink") 19:30, 16
September 2011 (CEST)

Why would it be a fake? Crown3DS's website is 50% finished. Fake
flashcards never let you know when their website will be completed.
--[Kiddyshaq34](User:Kiddyshaq34 "wikilink") 19:36, 16 September 2011
(BST)

For me the video on their page seems to be a fake. It looks like
starting a normal SplinterCell3D with its extern hardware (just put the
chips on another board). Maybe it's a fake, but I'm not
sure.--[Lazymarek9614](User:Lazymarek9614 "wikilink") 20:52, 16
September 2011 (CEST)

It look's pretty fake. And like
[Lazymarek9614](User:Lazymarek9614 "wikilink") said, they probably just
have the ROM chip from the Splinter Cell cartridge stuck on another
board. Also it's directly promoting piracy, so it doesn't belong here.
--[CHR15x94](User:CHR15x94 "wikilink") 21:26, 16 September 2011 (CEST)

Why? huf :( --[Jocopoco](User:Jocopoco "wikilink") 15:28, 17 September
2011 (CEST)


Wow.. If you wouldn't edit this post 3 times too, it might have been
overlooked.. --[Elisherer](User:Elisherer "wikilink") 16:22, 17
September 2011 (CEST)


Yeah, exactly this happens
now...--[Lazymarek9614](User:Lazymarek9614 "wikilink") 17:53, 17
September 2011 (CEST)

@[Elisherer](User:Elisherer "wikilink"): "Move the last entry to the
news archive. There should be no more than 4 entrees in the list."
Please don't spam the news like that! Please only move 1 version
(latest) of your tool to the news and only change the version number,
don't add it again!
Thanks.--[Lazymarek9614](User:Lazymarek9614 "wikilink") 14:48, 23
September 2011 (CEST)


I thought that what I was doing for the last 2 updates... :) . I could
delete the 0.3 line if you like and restore the last archived one...
--[Elisherer](User:Elisherer "wikilink") 14:59, 23 September 2011 (CEST)

Just a thought, but would anyone prefer if the news feed were split into
two categories, like major news and homebrew/software releases as it is
on WiiBrew.org? I know it's not a huge deal now that homebrew isn't
currently possible and there are relatively few software releases, but
once it is, big news like system updates would be quickly overrun by
homebrew releases and what not. I personally would. Thoughts?
--[CHR15x94](User:CHR15x94 "wikilink") 21:24, 23 September 2011 (CEST)


Just like wiibrew.org. I second that... But I still think that we need
to set boundries like how many updates for the same app (like mine,
3dsexplorer...I just made a newer version) like "if you update for the
2nd time in a row you need to update the same news line and not add a
new one!" and like wiibrew: big news, 3 entries, homebrew releases 5
entries... --[Elisherer](User:Elisherer "wikilink") 01:10, 24 September
2011 (CEST)

Is the new firmware 2.2.0.4-J (found in "Super Mario Land 3D" on Nov.
3rd) considered news?
[source](http://www.neogaf.com/forum/showthread.php?p=32377940&posted=1#post32377940).
--[Elisherer](User:Elisherer "wikilink") 20:40, 5 November 2011 (CET)


IMO it's not necessary to add that to the news until they release it on
their CDN servers. --[Yellows8](User:Yellows8 "wikilink") 06:06, 6
November 2011 (CET)